colcannon is a classic Irish dish and a
must-have for any st. Patrick's Day
celebration and the great thing about it
is that it is so easy to make
traditionally it only has two
ingredients potatoes of course and your
choice of either kale or cabbage let's
get started
you're going to put about 2 pounds of
field cubed potatoes into a saucepan
submerge the potatoes with water and
then bring to a boil bring the heat down
to medium and then let them sit for
about 15 minutes or until tender and
while it's happening let's prep our
veggie i'm using kale but feel free to
experiment here you can use cabbage
Swiss chard spinach pretty much any
leafy green vegetable that you want
whatever you use you can want to have
about a pound of it and you're going to
have it chopped keep in mind that if you
are using kale you're gonna want to
remove the steps you want just the
leaves here and once that's chopped we
transfer it to a pot of boiling salted
water for blanching we're going to let
that boil for about five minutes to make
sure that the kale gets nice and tender
again if you'd like to have a little bit
more flavor feel free to add some
veggies here I sometimes sir want some
green onion a little bit of parsley
maybe some leeks I'm just showing you
the basic recipe here now what's T kayla
has been blanched we're going to turn
off the heat and then remove the keel
from the water with a slotted spoon from
here you have a couple options you can
either put the kale into the potatoes as
is or you can do what I like to do which
is puree it's a little bit of butter now
the choice of course is entirely up to
you but I find that purane it allows it
to mix in more evenly with potatoes
speaking of which those still have a few
minutes left another cook so I'm gonna
go ahead and do that
dubstep butter that is room temperature
if you take it straight out of the
fridge it will take longer to blend good
perfect time and potatoes are fully
cooked which means that we're going want
to get these drained and dry out the pan
nobody likes water dunkle cannon once
everything is as dry as possible you're
going want to return the potatoes to the
pots and add the kale
if you'd like a creamier consistency add
a little butter and milk to the mix
season with salt and pepper to taste and
start mashing and there you have it
colcannon a quick easy and incredibly
versatile dish you can use this as a
side or if you feel so inclined
incorporate it into your banners mesh or
shepherd's pie recipes well that's all
from me today from metc storm watch this
is daniel fisher wishing you happy
cooking and a very happy st. Patty's Day